---
layout: post
title:  "Select Dropdown"
date:   2017-12-20 09:29:03 -0500
categories: [component, element]
parent: form
jsarr:
     - components/accordion/accordion.js
---

The select dropdown is a tricky component. It's not possible to create completely custom styles when you're using semantic html, i.e. the `select` and `option` tags.  You can style the closed select element, but not the opened list. Even with this constraint, I recommend that this method be used whenever possible, since it allows us to use markup as it was intended, and is accessible to screen readers and keyboards with very little code. 

There may be times when you get pushback from designers and clients about the default list styling. If that's the case, there are other methods to make a custom select dropdown, such as [the listbox method by W3](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/examples/listbox/listbox-collapsible.html). I would still recommend the first option, however. As W3 says, "No ARIA is better than bad ARIA" [(W3 citation)](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria-practices/#no_aria_better_bad_aria). We should strive for simplicity and be critical and thoughtful about how we add ARIA roles, states, and properties to our components, as it could introduce unintended issues.

## Component
{% include components/select/select.html %}

## What makes this component accessible?
### HTML Structure 
This component utilizes semantic html, which means that screen readers and keyboards can access its information easily. There are just a few requirements to make the select dropdown work properly:
- The `select` element should have a `name` attribute. When a form is submitted, this info is sent to the server along with the `value` attribute of the chosen `option` item as a key/value pair.
- Each `option` element should have a `value` attribute.
- The `select` should have an ID.
- The `label` should have an attribute `for="{ID}"`, where `{ID}` refers to its select's ID. 

### Screen Reader Support 
Given this component's use of semantic HTML, screen readers are able to understand and describe its structure without the added help of ARIA roles or attributes. For example, using VoiceOver on a Mac, when the reader initially focuses on the dropdown, it gives the currently selected option, the label text, the state of the dropdown (collapsed), and the type of element. 

### Keyboard Support 
If the focus is on a select element:
- `Spacebar`, `Up`, or `Down` keys will open or close the dropdown.  

Once the dropdown is expanded:
- `Up` or `Down` will go through the list options.
- `Spacebar` or `Enter` will select a list option and collapse the dropdown menu.


## Source code
{% include components/select/select_accordion.html %}



